# PyJan26
PyJan26 is a static site generator written in Python. It allows you to generate static websites from templates and content files, with support for pagination, custom pages, custom filters, and custom collections.

## Features

**Static Site Generation**: PyJan26 generates static HTML files from templates and content files, allowing you to create fast and lightweight websites.
**Pagination**: Easily paginate your content with configurable page sizes and navigation.
**Static Path**: Define static paths to copy static files such as CSS, images, or other assets to the output directory.
**Custom Pages**: Create custom pages using templates and content files to tailor your website's structure and content.
**Custom Filters**: Extend PyJan26 with custom filters to manipulate content or metadata during the generation process.
**Custom Collections**: Organize your content into custom collections to facilitate flexible and structured site organization.

## Installation
You can install PyJan26 using pip:

```bash
pip install pyjan26
```

## Directory Structure and Usage

PyJan26 follows a specific directory structure to organize your templates, content, and generated files. Here's how you can structure your project:

project_directory/
│
├── _templates/
│ ├── base.html # Base template for all pages
│ └── custom_template.html # Extendable template for specific pages
│
├── _content/
│ ├── post1.md # Markdown file for Post 1
│ ├── post2.md # Markdown file for Post 2
│ └── about.md # Markdown file for About page
│
└── public/
├── index.html # Generated index page
├── post1/index.html # Generated page for Post 1
├── post2/index.html # Generated page for Post 2
└── about/index.html # Generated page for About


### Base Templates

Design your base templates in the `_templates` directory. These templates provide the overall structure and layout for your site. Here's an example of a basic base template (`base.html`):

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>My Static Site</title>
</head>
<body>

    {% block content %}{% endblock %}
</body>
</html>
```

The {% block content %} and {% endblock %} tags define where the content of each page will be inserted. You can extend this base template in other templates to maintain a consistent design across your site.


## Extend Templates
In addition to base templates, you can create extendable templates in the _templates directory for specific pages. These templates can extend the base template and provide additional customization as needed. Here's an example of an extendable template (custom_template.html):

```html
{% extends 'base.html' %}

{% block content %}
    <div>
        {{ content | safe }}
    </div>
{% endblock %}
```
Adjust the content within the {% block content %} tags to customize the layout of specific pages.

## Content Files
Define your content files in the _content directory. These files contain the content for each page of your site. Content can be written in Markdown or another supported format. Here's an example of a content file (post1.md):

```markdown
---
layout: custom_template.html
title: Post 1
---

# Post 1

Content of your post goes here.
```

In this example, layout specifies the template to use for rendering the page, and title sets the title of the page.

## Public Folder
Generated files will be stored in the public folder. This folder contains the static HTML files generated by PyJan26 based on your templates and content files.



